---
layout: post
title: Short Reviews on Books
tag: Review
---
The following is a short review of the books that I have read.  
Also it helps me to show off that I read books.  
It is a thing, right?  

#### *SOME STATS :*  
 Last update: *2021-May-29*  
 Total reviewed: 50  
 Most read author: *Walter Issacson (4)*  
 Book read most times:  *[The fountainhead](#fountainhead) - Ayn Rand (~3)*  
 Book read longest duration: *[Republic](#republic) - Plato (over a year)*  
 Book I recommended the most: *[Homo Deus](#homodeus) - Yuval Noah Harari*  
 Toughest reading experience: *[Beyond Good and Evil](#beyondgne) - Nietzsche*  
 Book that bored me the most: *[Man The Unknown](#manunknown) - Alexis Carrel*  

#### Currently Reading :
  - Godel, Escher ,Bach
  - Thinking fast and slow
  - Freedom from the known
  - Crime and Punishment

(*In no specific order*)

### 1. The Fountainhead <a id="fountainhead"></a>

  **Author**:   Ayn Rand  
  **About**:    Objectivism through fiction.  

  **Review**:   Ayn Rand does a fine job in explaining her philosophy of objectivism through fiction.
                The central character Howard Roark deserves to be studied at least for the sake of perspective.

### 2. The Alchemist

   **Author**: Paulo Coelho  
   **About**:  Fiction dealing with optimism.  

   **Review**: For a story or a folk-tale it is good. Most overrated book I ever read.

### 3. Steve Jobs

   **Author**: Walter Issacson    
   **About**:  Biography of Steve Jobs  

   **Review**: Changed my view about Steve Jobs. He is still an interesting personality to me. But not worthy of admiration.
              The movie Jobs(2013) based on this book is not very much like what the book stands for.

### 4. Leonardo da Vinci

   **Author**: Walter Issacson  
   **About**:  Biography of Leanardo da Vinci  

   **Review**: Dives into the world of Leonardo, art and renaissance era. He wasn't just Mona Lisa or The last supper.

### 5. The innovators: How a group of hackers, geniuses and geeks created the digital revolution

   **Author**: Walter Issacson  
   **About**:  A brief account of people who made digital age possible.    

   **Review**: Pays tribute to the real contributors who made computer and networking possible.
              To read this book, is like watching a great documentary on the topic.  
              The narration is splendid.

### 6. Homo deus: A brief history of tomorrow <a id="homodeus"></a>

   **Author**: Yuval Noah Harari  
   **About**:  A speculative narration of future of mankind in terms of choices that we make today.  

   **Review**: This is only book I rated 5 on Good Reads. They say 'Sapiens' was better, but still.
              Harari speculates a lot in this. (By the way, he explicitly admits it before starting it.)
              However, the possibilities of turns that humans might take towards our future are explained to its best with a great narration.

### 7. Discover your destiny with the monk who sold the Ferrari

   **Author**: Robin Sharma  
   **About**:  Self-help through fiction  

   **Review**: It is the first self-help book I bought for myself. I'd recommend to read if you don't have a perspective on self-help.
              Otherwise it is just bullshit.

### 8. The Greatness Guide

   **Author**: Robin Sharma  
   **About**:  Self-help in the form of principles  

   **Review**: It is the first self-help book I read. Just like any other book of the same genre.

### 9. Little Black book for stunning success

   **Author**: Robin Sharma  
   **About**: Self-help  

   **Review**: Read the book because I got a free copy of the ebook version. At the time, I wouldn't have bought the book.
              And post reading it, the opinion remained same.(woudln't have bought the book)

### 10. Surely you are joking Mr.Feynman

   **Author**: Richard Feynman  
   **About**:  Autobiography  

   **Review**: Oh Feynman!, Apart from being a physicist he is an extra-ordinary person.  

### 11. The power of your sub-conscious mind

   **Author**: Joesph Murphy  
   **About**:  Sub-conscious mind and it's potential.  

   **Review**: Great optimism. Misses pragmatism. I find it overrated.

### 12. The subtle art of not giving a f*ck

   **Author**: Mark Manson  
   **About**:  Self-improvement and bashing myths on self-help.  

   **Review**: Read this book at the right time: when I started to doubt self-help. Oh boy!, it was like revelation.

### 13. Zero to One: Notes on Startups, or How to Build a future

   **Author**: Peter Thiel  
   **About**:  Insights and advice on new age companies.  

   **Review**: It is not a guide for startup or something. It doesn't answer anything. But raises great questions.
              There is fine discussion on startups and new age companies through the world view of Peter Thiel.

### 14. Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX and the Quest for fantastic future

   **Author**: Ashlee Vance  
   **About**:  Biography of Elon Musk  

   **Review**: People take Elon for granted. I don't discuss Musk with people who haven't known his work,
              apart from his tweets and self-advertising. The book gives a nice insight into what Musk actually is.

### 15. Mastery

   **Author**: Robert Greene  
   **About**:  A talk on how to become really good at something.  

   **Review**: The structure of the book and whole divisioning of chapters is funny. But I liked reading it.
              It emphasizes that 'mastery' is not a quick thing.

### 16. The Brain: The story of you

   **Author**: David Eagleman  
   **About**:  Discussion on Brain.  

   **Review**: My first reading on Brain. It is specifically a beginner book*(or a layman book)*. Serves the purpose very well.

### 17. Rich Dad, Poor Dad

   **Author**: Robert Kiyosaki  
   **About**:  Personal finance management  

   **Review**: The core of the book makes it special. Something not found in the usual money advice.
              But honestly the author could've shrunken the book to 10 pages and it would've still been the same.

### 18. Making India Awesome

   **Author**: Chetan Bhagat    
   **About**:  Suggesting solutions to few problems in modern India.    

   **Review**: It is like a summary of all Chetan Bhagat articles from newspapers, except that this seems to be addressed to youth.

### 19. What young India wants

   **Author**: Chetan Bhagat  
   **About**:  Kind of advising to Indian youth  

   **Review**: Addresses the issues in modern India. Nothing surprising. But not boring too.

### 20. Five Point Someone

   **Author**: Chetan Bhagat  
   **About**:  Fiction  

   **Review**: This book served as an inspiration to '3 idiots'.
              However, unlike the movie version the book is more pragmatic and interesting despite not having any background score.

### 21. The Go-getter

   **Author**: Peter Kyne  
   **About**:  Fiction emaphasizing on principles.  

   **Review**: The emphasis is on 'not giving up'. As a story, it is very boring. But what it conveys is worthy of knowing.

### 22. The Republic <a id="republic"></a>

   **Author**: Plato (translated)  
   **About**:  Philosphical discussion.  

   **Review**: My inspiration to contemplating on existing system of things probably originated from reading Plato's version of conversation
              between socrates and his fellow-men. Would disagree to an extent but this is a great book.

### 23. Meditations

   **Author**: Marcus Aurelius (translated)  
   **About**:  Personal notes Marcus Aurelius wrote to himself  

   **Review**: Each note of the Roman emperor compiled in this book is worthy of reading, discussing and debating.
              Nothing should be taken as it is, though. Each note seriously lacks context most probably because Marcus Aurelius never
              intended it to be book of this sort.

### 24. Factfulness

   **Author**: Hans Rosling  
   **About**:  Optimistic view of modern world through facts and figures  

   **Review**: The perfect antidote to common notion that 'the past was a better time, now a days things are very bad'.

### 25. Man's Search for Meaning

   **Author**: Viktor Frankl  
   **About**:  Discussing meaning of life through author's account of his time in Holocast.  

   **Review**: I don't find the pyschoanalysis part(Part-II) very compelling. However, the account of author's time at the concentration camps
              and it's effects on meaning and purpose in his own life and of others', is very compelling.

### 26. The autobiography of Benjamin Franklin

   **Author**: Benjamin Franklin  
   **About**:  Autobiography (not strictly) addressed to his son.  

   **Review**: Ben Franklin definitely is an interesting character. His systematic approach of resolving problems interests me the most.
              However, despite explicit honesty it seems to miss what Ben Franklin could've done wrong.
              For a third person perspective, I am looking foward to read Issacson's version.

### 27. Inner Engineereing

   **Author**: Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev  
   **About**:  Author's personal take on human life based on his teachings and experiences.  

   **Review**: It is not a definitive guide to yoga. But it contrasts through revealing regarding what yoga actually is.
              The approach is modernistic and emphasizes how ordinary people could adopt yogic way of life.
              If you are in it to learn about yoga in generally, I'd recommend reading the works of Vivekananda.

### 28. Attitude is everything

   **Author**: Jeff Keller  
   **About**:  Self-help  

   **Review**: Just another self-help book.

### 29. How to win friends and influence people

   **Author**: Dale Carnegie  
   **About**: Self-help  

   **Review**: Probably the first book of its kind. That doesn't make it special though.
              The advice is worthy, but the premise is wrong. It becomes worse when people keep recommending this book to each other.
              (which already happened by the time I was reading this)

### 30. Think and Grow Rich

   **Author**: Napoleon Hill  
   **About**:  Self-help  

   **Review**: I am sure this book would've seemed like a revelation when it was written. In fact it does even now, to an extent.
              The core is valid. And that would be true for any other self-help book. But the absurdity is evident.

### 31. Beyond Good and Will <a id="beyondgne"></a>

   **Author**: Fredrich Nietzsche  
   **About**:  Nietzche's brief on things beyond good and evil.  

   **Review**: This book introduced me to Nietzsche. I happen to belong to a set of people who find Nietzsche very nihilistic and pessimistic.
              Despite all that, the discussion he puts forward is compelling to read, to be studied and carried upon.


### 32. Losing my Virgnity

   **Author**: Richard Branson  
   **About**:  Part one of autobiography.  

   **Review**: This book is a great personal account of behind the scenes of setting up businesses, advertsing for them
              and dealing with personal life meanwhile.

### 33. Finding my virgnity

   **Author**: Richard Branson  
   **About**:  Part two of his autobiography.  

   **Review**: Part one continued but with different businesses. However the focus shifts towards philanthropic and altruistic efforts.

### 34. Atomic Habits

   **Author**: James Clear  
   **About**:  Self-improvement through habit making.  

   **Review**: I seriously doubt author's credentials in writing this book.
              But the book is a great compilation of research work on habits in layman terms. Nothing new. Nothing his own from the author.
              (except narratives) Yet, a good compilation.

### 35. Hit Refresh

   **Author**: Satya Nadella  
   **About**:  An account of author's time at Microsoft.  

   **Review**: Microsoft as a company transformed itself post Steve Balmer's resignation and Satya Nadella's charge in as CEO.
              The book is premised on that transformation. However, what interested me was his personal life
              especially how he and his wife dealt with their children.

### 36. Mortality

   **Author**: Christopher Hitchens  
   **About**:  An account of how Chris Hitchens faced cancer and death.  

   **Review**: How shaken would a man be if diagnosed of cancer? How would an atheist react? How would a well learnt man react?
               In this book, all these are penned down by the man himself.

### 37. Originals

   **Author**: Adam Grant  
   **About**:  An excerpt on original thinking.  

   **Review**: The attempt to analyze original thinking is commendable. Also, the stories mentioned by author are compelling.
              However, nothing concrete can be drawn from it. I personally disliked the author's attempt to use narrow statistics
              in order to explain original thinking.

### 38. Why we sleep

   **Author**: Matthew Walker  
   **About**:  Sleep as explained by a neuroscientist.  

   **Review**: This is not purely a research work. Rather the studies and conclusions have been watered down to layman's terms.
              Neither compelling nor boring. There are not many books on topic, however. So this stands out by default.

### 39. Deep Work

   **Author**: Cal Newport  
   **About**:  Deep and focussed work  

   **Review**: Cal is not a expert in the topic. However, his take on deep and focused work is interesting.
               I wish the book were smaller, because it could've been.

### 40. Man, The Unknown <a id="manunknown"></a>

   **Author**: Alexis Carrel  
   **About**: Physiology and Eugenics.  

   **Review**: As long as Carrel puts forth a discussion on human physiology it is an effortful read. In other parts it is beyond boring.  

### 41. So good they can't ignore you

   **Author**: Cal Newport  
   **About**:  Debunking myths about passion and others.  

   **Review**: I would say this book comes in the same line as that of Greene's 'Mastery'. The emphasis is on 'getting good takes time'.

### 42. Autobiography of a Yogi

   **Author**: Paramahansa Yogananda  
   **About**:  Autobiography  

   **Review**: I have no idea why this book is famous. I have never felt so bad about reading a book. (Not the content but the time invested in it.)

### 43. Hitch-22

   **Author**: Christopher Hitchens  
   **About**: Memoir-Autobiography  

   **Review**: I wouldn't have enjoyed the book if I've never listened to Mr.Hitchens speak or debate. *(Thanks to YouTube!)*
               This is *(most probably)* applicable to all.  

### 44. The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes

   **Author**: Arthur Canon Doyle  
   **About**: Fiction/Detective  

   **Review**: For the group of stories written in late 19th century this is exceedingly good. The book reading experience is inferior
               when compared to plot from a 21st century TV show and much superior and realistic in portraying how Holmes would think.  

### 45. The seven habits of Highly Effective People

   **Author**: Stephen Covey  
   **About**: Self-help in business and related life.  

   **Review**: For a perspective it is good read. Otherwise it is the same self-help-sermon recommending to do 'this' and 'that'.  

### 46. Lights from Many Lamps

   **Author**: Lillian Watson  
   **About**: Compilation of essays.  

   **Review**: Author's elucidation is hardly any improvement over orginal works. Neverthless, the choice of essays was good enough
                to introduce and give a lasting vibe of Emerson, Browning, Confucius and many more.  

### 47. Ignited Minds

   **Author**: Abdul Kalam  
   **About**: Memoir towards compiling a plan for India-2020.  

   **Review**: To me, APJAK is both overrated and underrated. The book is not rich in details, rather it shows how optimistically
                Mr. Kalam has dealt with everything for the future of a developing nation.  

### 48. Fifty Shades Trilogy

   **Author**: Erika Leonard  
   **About**: Fiction celebrating BDSM.  

   **Review**: If sex was a topic open to discussion in the society, the absurdity in this book would've been more visible.
                But it is not. I always wonder how a woman could write such a character *(Ana)*. Neither BDSM nor descriptions of clits offend me at all.
                But the characters celebrating their stupidty, and the mean and melodramatic love story are beyond tolerable levels. Nevertheless, as a teenager I read the books and you know why.  

### 49. Human Compatible

   **Author**: Stuart Russell  

   **About**: A not-all-optimist AI scientist's insights on AI growth and ASI/AGI.  

   **Review**: Russell makes some pragmatic and cautious elucidations about the current trends of AI growth and the augmentation it requires
                for a better future where AGI/ASI is theoritcally possible. Technically sufficient, the discussion on moral problems are gold.

### 50. 21 lessons for 21st century

   **Author**: Yuval Noah Harari  
   **About**: A discussion on 21st century, its problems, references to near past and future.  

   **Review**: Harari speculates less than *Homo deus*, which makes it very apt and relatable to the current scenario. Vividly explained through out as usual.  
